Hey there. And welcome back.
The section we're about to build now
is my absolute favorite in this entire project.
And that's because in this section,
you're going to learn how to build an amazing
rotating card effect.
And to do so you'll learn how to use
the perspective and backface-visibility properties in CSS.
Plus, you're gonna use background blend modes,
and you'll also learn how and when
to use the box-decoration break property.
So, there are like 200 lines
of SAS code in this section alone.
So let's get to work.
And here is what we're gonna build in this section.
So we have the three cards here
and as soon as we hover them they rotate like this.
So I showed you this before.
But now that we're gonna build it
let's take a look at it again.
So, we hover it and we rotate
and when we hover this button here of course
we have this effect,
and, yeah.
And also in this section we have, of course,
this H two here going on,
and then at the end, this button.
So let's start by formatting this section here
with this gray background to color here that you see.
And then of course putting the secondary heading here.
And we can also start implementing the row here
because you see that these are three equally sized cards.
And so we're using the columns from our grid
again that we coded before.
So let's start by implementing these things, okay?
So, back to our code.
Let's start with the index dot HTML file.
This one is gonna be called section tours.
Once again a section element,
and then with the name of section tours.
So class, section, tours.
Then,
what we, now is the secondary heading,
and I'm not going to write the code again.
I'm just going here, and copy it,
because it's actually the exact same thing.
And so let's put it here.
Once again, it has this weird formatting going on.
And so, the title here should be most popular tours.
And then we can also put a row with three
columns in there as well.
So let's just copy them from here.
And, here we go.
Alright.
And now we can then style the section tours here.
And we're gonna do that once again here in our home file.
Let's get rid of that actually.
And so this one is going to look
a bit like the section above it.
So let's actually copy the background and the padding.
And we're gonna adjust this padding
probably a little bit later on.
But for now let's leave it at 25 pixels like this.
And so let's now take a look, a first look.
And so, yeah. So, here we go.
Now once again we have this problem here
with the wide space.
So we should probably move up this entire thing here.
And then let's give it some more space here, down there,
just for now so we can see clearly what's going on
here when we coding our cards.
So we have it nicely in the middle of the page,
and not here in the bottom.
So,
25 then at the top.
Zero on the right side.
Now let's say in the bottom we want, like, 50 REM, at least.
And then on the left side zero as well.
And then we should also move up
this entire section a bit,
such as we did with the section features.
So let's take a look if ten REM is actually enough.
And yeah, seems so.
Let's just inspect.
And yeah, so, here we go.
So the section now goes until this point,
and that's totally okay.
Alright, so let's now start
to implement our cards component.
Because again, I'm going to define a card as a component
so that we can theoretically later reuse it on the page.
So let's start with the very basic functionality, alright?
So, in your file, cards dot SCSS.
And then, don't forget to implement a tier
and card.
Give it a safe.
And of course you also need it in the HTML, right?
And so here in this column.
So once again we're not touching the column in any way.
We're creating a separate DIF, just for the card.
Let's just put some text here.
So again, this is just for testing purposes for now.
Just to implement the basic functionality.
So let's start by giving it some background color, okay.
Background color.
Color.
Orange. Red.
So for testing, I really like this color.
Add some height as well.
Let's say 50 REM.
And just for testing that should be enough.
Now what actually happens when
we hover the card element?
Well, all it does actually is to
basically rotate 180 degrees.
So half of a circle, right?
So a circle is 360 degrees.
And so 180 degrees is half a circle.
So half a rotation.
Because, if you take a look here,
that it what happens right.
It only rotates half of a circle, basically.
You see?
So it's not 360 degrees. It's 180 degrees.
And it rotates across the y axis, right?
So remember this here is the y direction,
from top to bottom.
And this is the x direction.
And so, the axis of this rotation is the y direction,
so the y axis.
And so we have to rotate y.
So let's implement that.
So with transform once again,
and then rotate.
And you see that we have these different rotates here.
So according to the x axis, the y axis, and the z axis.
And as I explained, I want the y axis,
and I want 180 degrees.
Now we of course need to give it some animation.
So transition.
And we'll put all here,
because we're probably gonna have more later on.
10.5 seconds let's say.
Or we can actually more like eight point eight second,
so that it takes a bit longer,
and we have more time to see what's happening.
So let's take a look.
And it's actually already kind of working.
You saw that?
So it rotates and we can then see the text here,
from the other side basically.
So from the back you see this text here.
It's inverted.
Now it says starting from here, card, text.
We cannot really see it really well, maybe.
But that's actually what's happening.
Now the effect that we have on the original
looks a bit nicer, right?
Let me show it.
Because what happens is that it appears
that it actually moves towards you, right?
So it's like its coming out of the page
and towards you, towards the user.
You see that?
And that is called perspective.
So take a look at this one,
and now compare it with this one.
It looks completely different, right?
And that is called perspective.
And so in CSS, we can actually define that perspective.
So let's do that.
And the way we have to do it,
is to actually define the perspective
on the parent element of the one where the transform,
where the rotation occurs.
So the perspective has to be on the parent.
And what that means is that
we should define the perspective property in here,
on the card,
and then have a child element for this rotation here.
So let's now first add the perspective property here.
Perspective.
And now in here we have to put
a really huge number of pixels.
So let's go with one thousand five hundred,
so 1,500 pixels.
So, like this.
So I will put 150 REM.
Now we'll show you some differences in a second.
But for now, let's continue.
And actually to make this work in Mozilla Firefox as well,
we have to use the moz prefix.
So let me add that one as well.
And so now it will work in Firefox as well.
So this is once again, quite a new property here.
And so it's not already implemented in all of the browsers.
Now remember how we had to now put
these properties here on a child element of the card?
So let's actually do that.
So you want a new DIF here.
And I'm calling it the card side,
because it's one side of the card.
And later we will then add another side.
So just text here.
So, again this is the block,
and then this is the element in the BEM notation.
So, card side.
Here it is.
Let's actually close this one.
We're done with it.
And so,
card side.
Alright.
Now this here also has to change of course.
So the way we're gonna do that,
is to say that when we hover the card,
then we want the side to transform.
Does that make sense?
Let me write it out to you again so it makes more sense.
So we hover the card, right?
And when the card is hovered,
then the card side will be transformed.
And we do not put the hover here directly on the card side
because later we will have more sides.
And actually it makes more sense
that we really want to hover,
we want this effect to occur
when we hover the main components.
So the main block.
So when we hover the card,
that's when our effect starts taking place.
So let's now take a look.
Let's actually make the text a bit bigger here,
just now for testing purposes again.
Color. White.
I'm just gonna write it like this
because I will delete it in a second.
And font size two REM.
And so now let's hover it.
And, yeah.
So, that looks much nicer, right?
You see, now it also looks
as if it was moving towards you already.
So, that's much better than it was before.
Now I wanted to show you how it looks like
with different values of perspective.
So let's come here to the parent element,
and change that.
For example,
imagine we only had put 15 REM.
Then it would be this crazy effect.
Whoa. What's going on here?
So it's not really clear how these
values here affect our perspective.
But basically, the lower the value,
the more dramatic the perspective is.
So let's put a really high number here right now.
And so now it looks almost as we had it in the beginning.
So we don't see any perspective effect at all.
And so this is, kind of a bit of experimentation
until you get it right.
Until you get the look that you want for it.
So we now have implemented this side of the card.
But actually we have two sides, right?
So again, you can see that we see the back part
of this card now here because the text
is now the other way around.
So basically we're seeing the card now from behind.
But that's not really what we want.
So what we have here is that basically
we see one card side in the beginning,
and then we hover it, we see the other card side.
So let's now implement that in our HTML TSS.
So we have another card side.
So let's put here front and back.
And so now we need a way to distinguish them.
And so what I'm gonna do
is to add a mode file.
So card side,
front.
And then card side back.
Alright.
So now we have a front side and a back side.
Very simple.
So front side, and a back side.
So let's actually give each one a different color here.
And this one is gonna be just green, let's say.
Now think about what does it mean
that this side here is the back side?
So what's the different between
this back side and the front side?
Can you imagine that?
Well, the difference is,
is that the back side,
in the beginning has already rotated.
So it's already 180 degrees on the back.
And then as soon as we hover the card,
then it moves to zero.
Does that make sense?
So let me implement that and show it to you.
So before we hover the card,
this backside is already flipped basically, right?
So it's already at 180 degrees.
And so now we have to change this hover thing here as well.
Because only the front side is what rotates the 180 degrees.
Because the back side is already at 180 degrees.
So this only applies to the front side.
And what does apply to the back side?
Well, if it's already at 180,
it now needs to go back to zero.
And that's actually it.
So let's test it out,
and then take a look at the code again, if we understand it.
So this is what it looks like right now,
well not exactly as we imagined it, right?
But we're getting there.
So you see that this one is now flipped,
and this one is at the front.
And when we leave it, this one is on the front,
and the other one is on the back.
And you can see that because the text starts from the
right hand side on the back part.
Now in order to finally create this effect
that we have in our final version,
they need to be on top of one another.
And so how can we do that?
Well, we simply use absolute positioning.
And we do that on both of them.
And so, we can do it right here in the card side class,
because that's the one that's coming to both of them.
So, position absolute.
And we simply want them to start,
at the top, so top zero,
and at the left, so left zero as well.
Now remember, we always have to
give the parent a relative position.
So position,
relative.
And now we should be almost there.
Now since we gave them an absolute position,
what the elements do is that
they basically start fitting to their width.
So you see, this one is now,
the red one is wider than the green one
because it says front and the front text
is wider than just back text.
And so we need to change that as well.
So let's give them a width of 100%.
And the final piece of the puzzle is another property
that I actually showed you before.
But that was just to fix a weird animation error.
But this time we really need this property.
And the one I'm talking about is called backface-visibility.
Remember me talking about this one?
Well, what this does is that, if we set it to hidden,
it basically hides the back part of an element.
So you saw that when we rotated the card
where it said front, it then, as soon as we rotated it,
that text started from the right side,
until we were seeing the card from the back side.
And so now when we specify this backface-visibility
to hidden we will no longer be able to see that back part.
And that's actually exactly what we want, right?
So let me check that again.
And so here we go.
Well, actually the perspective is kind of gone.
Let me check out what's going on here.
And okay, okay, I see what's going on here.
You see that?
So this card, it has no height anymore right now.
So the cards, they have a height of 500 pixels,
as we defined, but the card does no longer have a height.
And why is that?
Well it is because its height collapsed.
And that's very similar to what happens
when all of the elements are flooded.
But right now, all the elements are on position absolute.
And so they're also taken out of the natural flow.
Remember when we talked about that?
So, we took these cards out of their natural flow.
And therefore the parent collapsed and lost its height.
Now when this happens with floats, we have a clear fix.
But with position absolute,
there is actually no such thing.
There is nothing we can do, at least not with pure CSS.
And so what we have to do,
is to actually specify the same height
that we gave to the card itself.
And so now we're saying that height
of the card should be 50, and of the sides as well.
And so they can have the same height.
And with that, our perspective should be back.
And here you go.
So that's exactly the way
that the other animation looks like, right?
Well, not exactly.
It's because we can also use another animation type.
Because,
well,
so we have the transition here.
Remember there is something called
the transition timing function.
And when we don't specify it,
then it simply uses the most simple one,
which is a linear animation.
But we don't want that.
We want ease.
And so this animation looks a bit smoother.
And again, I'm gonna explain better to you
what these transition timing functions really mean,
how they really work.
And I will show you a lot of examples as well.
For now, let's just use this.
And so with that, our animation should look a bit better.
Now we can also get rid now of
these weird background colors here as well.
Here we can actually put background color.
And it should be white.
So, color white.
And then here on the back, let's take a look at our example.
Okay, so now this looks a bit better, in fact.
And so let's take a look here at this one.
And so you see that in here,
we have this nice gradient going on
from this corner to this one.
And these are actually some new colors
that we have to add to our color palat.
So this yellow and this orange here.
And then also these two colors here.
So this blue and this, like, dark blue or pink.
So we have these new colors here.
And this is just a normal green gradient here in the middle.
But the other ones we have to add.
So let's put them into our variables file.
And let's put them right here.
So I'm calling the first one the color secondary.
And then light.
So it's a light version first.
And the color here is ffb nine, zero, zero.
So I'm missing the hash here.
So I got all of these colors here by getting some
inspiration from other websites and other web apps.
And if you also want to get some inspiration,
see some examples,
they have a lot of websites where you can do that.
And you can find them on my resources page.
So I have a couple of links.
There are multiple sites out there
where you can find inspiration.
And that's something that's really important
as a web developer, and also web designer,
so, I consider myself, that I'm both,
and so I like to be on top of that.
So the latest design trends.
So that I can keep up with industry
and then use these trends as well in my own designs.
So, this is now the tertiary.
So, put these colors here in your variables file
so that we can now use them here in the card.
So we have three cards and three gradients going on.
So what does that mean?
Well, it means that we actually
need a new modifier here, right?
Because we have three card side backs.
So it's getting a bit more complicated.
And we have more and more code.
But, well, that's just how it works.
This is a really complex component.
So now we can specify the back in general,
and then we will have some very specific code
for each of the three different cards.
So, let's do that.
So, back.
And then the number one.
And then of course we will have some for the next two cards.
So,
no background color in here.
And here we have a linear gradient.
So background color, then linear gradient.
So it goes to the right bottom corner.
So right bottom, and then the colors that we want.
So color secondary,
light, and color secondary dark.
So let's check that out.
Well, that didn't really work.
Sorry.
Let me check out why that happened.
Ah, actually, it's not background color.
It is background image.
So for linear gradient, it's image not color, of course.
Well, let me reload it again.
And let me now take a look, inspect.
Well,
it still has this green color here.
So maybe there was again,
an error with the calculation.
And yeah, okay, so what it says here
is that I have an undefined variable,
color secondary dark.
Light and dark.
Well let me check out the light and dark.
Ah, okay.
Of course, I need to change this.
So we have the light and the dark one for both.
Probably you had already noticed this error.
I just did not.
So sorry about that.
And so, yeah, that looks amazing, right?
Now just as the finishing touches of this card
let's give it these rounded corners here that we see,
and also the, this very subtle shadow that you
see underneath the card.
So,
border radius
of three pixels let's say.
And then a nice box shadow.
So zero in the x direction,
one point five REM in here,
then 40 pixels blur.
So four REM.
And then for the color, RGBA, that's always, color black.
This time with a 15%.
Now you see that we also repeating these
kind of shadows here all the time.
So, we could also do a variable for all of these shadows.
But again, I'm not gonna go crazy here now
and define a variable for everything.
But in fact you can do it,
and probably you should do it
just to test it out for yourself.
And so I think that would be a good idea for you.
So find all of the shadows that are the same,
or at least similar,
and then make a couple of variables like,
shadow one, shadow two, and shadow three.
And then you can simply add these here
in the box shadow property.
Alright.
Ah yeah, that looks better right?
And so that is the basic functionality of the cards.
Now in the next lecture,
we're actually gonna start styling it,
and so we're gonna take care of that image you see up there,
then this nice orange text box that you have there,
which is slightly overlapping the white part.
And so, yeah, looking forward to do
that in the next lecture.